# FPGA-IMPLEMENTATION-OF-SNN-FOR-COLOR-DETECTION

Implementing a Spiking Neural Network (SNN) for colour detection on the Basys3 FPGA board using Verilog, this project integrates the AMS TCS3472 Pmod colour detection sensor using I2C communication. Leveraging the FPGA's parallel processing capabilities, the SNN architecture allows efficient real-time analysis of colour detection.

Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) have gained huge attention and have shown that they are promising in temporal information processing capability, low power consumption, and high biological plausibility. One major domain application for SNNs is to detect colours accurately. FPGAs provide fine-grained control over hardware resources, ensuring real-time processing of colour data while maintaining energy efficiency. The output of the PMOD colour sensor provides the raw digital value of the colour data which is processed by the SNN. The work is implemented on a Basys 3 FPGA board, which has distinct PMOD ports that can be used for integration. The outcome of this work highlights the effectiveness of SNNs implemented on a FPGA board. The combination of low power consumption and real-time processing makes this system a promising solution, particularly in applications that demand efficient and accurate colour detection. The work detected the colours, RED, BLUE and GREEN, with varying intensity levels, effectively capturing the depth of each colour. The total power utilization of this system was 0.092W, making it suitable for low power appplications.

TOOLS USED: Xilinx Vivado, Modelsim
